.TH SSH-AGENT 1 "June 22 2020 " ""
.SH NAME
\fBssh-agent\fP
\- OpenSSH authentication agent
.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
\fBssh-agent\fP
[\fB\-c\fP | s]
[\fB\-\&Dd\fP]
[\fB\-a\fP \fIbind_address\fP]
[\fB\-E\fP \fIfingerprint_hash\fP]
[\fB\-P\fP \fIallowed_providers\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fIlife\fP]
.br
\fBssh-agent\fP
[\fB\-a\fP \fIbind_address\fP]
[\fB\-E\fP \fIfingerprint_hash\fP]
[\fB\-P\fP \fIallowed_providers\fP]
[\fB\-t\fP \fIlife\fP]
\fIcommand\fP [\fIarg\fP...]
.br
\fBssh-agent\fP
[\fB\-c\fP | s]
\fB\-k\fP
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBssh-agent\fP
is a program to hold private keys used for public key authentication.
Through use of environment variables the agent can be located
and automatically used for authentication when logging in to other
machines using
\fBssh\fP(1).

The options are as follows:
.TP
\fB\-a\fP \fIbind_address\fP
Bind the agent to the
UNIX-domain
socket
\fIbind_address\fP.
The default is
\fI$TMPDIR/ssh-XXXXXXXXXX/agent.\*(Ltppid\*(Gt\fP.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP
Generate C-shell commands on
.BR stdout .
This is the default if
.IR SHELL
looks like it's a csh style of shell.
.TP
\fB\-D\fP
Foreground mode.
When this option is specified
\fBssh-agent\fP
will not fork.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP
Debug mode.
When this option is specified
\fBssh-agent\fP
will not fork and will write debug information to standard error.
.TP
\fB\-E\fP \fIfingerprint_hash\fP
Specifies the hash algorithm used when displaying key fingerprints.
Valid options are:
``md5''
and
``sha256''.
The default is
``sha256''.
.TP
\fB\-k\fP
Kill the current agent (given by the
.IR SSH_AGENT_PID
environment variable).
.TP
\fB\-P\fP \fIallowed_providers\fP
Specify a pattern-list of acceptable paths for PKCS#11 provider and FIDO
authenticator middleware shared libraries that may be used with the
\fB\-S\fP
or
\fB\-s\fP
options to
\fBssh-add\fP(1).
Libraries that do not match the pattern list will be refused.
See PATTERNS in
\fBssh_config\fP(5)
for a description of pattern-list syntax.
The default list is
``/usr/lib/*,/usr/local/lib/*''.
.TP
\fB\-s\fP
Generate Bourne shell commands on
.BR stdout .
This is the default if
.IR SHELL
does not look like it's a csh style of shell.
.TP
\fB\-t\fP \fIlife\fP
Set a default value for the maximum lifetime of identities added to the agent.
The lifetime may be specified in seconds or in a time format specified in
\fBsshd_config\fP(5).
A lifetime specified for an identity with
\fBssh-add\fP(1)
overrides this value.
Without this option the default maximum lifetime is forever.
.TP
\fIcommand\fP [\fIarg\fP...]
If a command (and optional arguments) is given,
this is executed as a subprocess of the agent.
The agent exits automatically when the command given on the command
line terminates.
.PP

There are two main ways to get an agent set up.
The first is at the start of an X session,
where all other windows or programs are started as children of the
\fBssh-agent\fP
program.
The agent starts a command under which its environment
variables are exported, for example
\fBssh-agent\fP xterm & .
When the command terminates, so does the agent.

The second method is used for a login session.
When
\fBssh-agent\fP
is started,
it prints the shell commands required to set its environment variables,
which in turn can be evaluated in the calling shell, for example
\fBeval\fP `ssh-agent -s` .

In both cases,
\fBssh\fP(1)
looks at these environment variables and uses them to establish a connection to the agent.

The agent initially does not have any private keys.
Keys are added using
\fBssh-add\fP(1)
or by
\fBssh\fP(1)
when
\fBAddKeysToAgent\fP
is set in
\fBssh_config\fP(5).
Multiple identities may be stored in
\fBssh-agent\fP
concurrently and
\fBssh\fP(1)
will automatically use them if present.
\fBssh-add\fP(1)
is also used to remove keys from
\fBssh-agent\fP
and to query the keys that are held in one.

Connections to
\fBssh-agent\fP
may be forwarded from further remote hosts using the
\fB\-A\fP
option to
\fBssh\fP(1)
(but see the caveats documented therein),
avoiding the need for authentication data to be stored on other machines.
Authentication passphrases and private keys never go over the network:
the connection to the agent is forwarded over SSH remote connections
and the result is returned to the requester,
allowing the user access to their identities anywhere in the network
in a secure fashion.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SSH_AGENT_PID
When
\fBssh-agent\fP
starts, it stores the name of the agent's process ID (PID) in this variable.
.TP
.B SSH_AUTH_SOCK
When
\fBssh-agent\fP
starts, it creates a
UNIX-domain
socket and stores its pathname in this variable.
It is accessible only to the current user,
but is easily abused by root or another instance of the same user.
.PP
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $TMPDIR/ssh-XXXXXXXXXX/agent.<ppid>
UNIX-domain
sockets used to contain the connection to the authentication agent.
These sockets should only be readable by the owner.
The sockets should get automatically removed when the agent exits.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBssh\fP(1),
\fBssh-add\fP(1),
\fBssh-keygen\fP(1),
\fBssh_config\fP(5),
\fBsshd\fP(8)
.SH AUTHORS

-nosplit
OpenSSH is a derivative of the original and free ssh 1.2.12 release by

Tatu Ylonen .

Aaron Campbell , Bob Beck , Markus Friedl , Niels Provos , Theo de Raadt
and

Dug Song
removed many bugs, re-added newer features and created OpenSSH.

Markus Friedl
contributed the support for SSH protocol versions 1.5 and 2.0.
